switching is the process of moving data within networks, switches are devices that perform switching

since switches move data within a network, the hosts must be all in the same network where the switch operates. the hosts
also will have IP addresses and MAC addresses

since switches are layer 2 devices, they only use the layer 2 header to make decisions.

lets say there is a network with 4 hosts (A, B, C, D) and one switch which connects the hosts.

hosts MAC addresses:
A - a1a1
B - b2b2
C - c3c3
D - d4d4

host A wants to send data to host D, host A would need to do ARP to get host D's MAC address but lets say its done that.
since switches only care about the layer 2 header we don't need to worry about IP addresses, so the data is:

layer 2:
SRC a1a1
DST d4d4

switches use and maintain a MAC address table which maps the switch ports to MAC addresses, each host is plugged into
the switch in a port

A - a1a1 (switch port 5)
B - b2b2 (switch port 6)
C - c3c3 (switch port 7)
D - d4d4 (switch port 8)

the MAC address table would look like this:

5 -> a1a1
6 -> b2b2
7 -> c3c3
8 -> d4d4

however the MAC address table begins as empty, as data flows through, the MAC address table will populate itself

the switch only performs 3 actions from here:
1) learn
2) flood
3) forward

when host A's data gets sent across the wire, the switch does action 1 learn. it will update the MAC address table with
mapping of switch port to source MAC. meaning on port 5 this switch received the MAC address of a1a1: 5 -> a1a1. now the
switch has to figure out what it has to do with the frame. it will look at the DST MAC address and know that d4d4 is the
destination. we know its host D but the MAC address table doesn't know which port and host that d4d4 is connected to.

so the switch does action 2 flood which duplicates the frame and sends it to all ports (except the receiving port). then
hosts B and C will check if it is the destined MAC address, because it is not they will discard the frame and host D
will realise that it is the destination and it will accept the frame. then host D will send a response to 
host A (SRC d4d4 DST a1a1). the frame will arrive to port 8, this allows the switch to do action 1 learn as it learnt
that something arrived to port 8 with the source MAC address of d4d4.

now the MAC address table would look like this:
5 -> a1a1
8 -> d4d4

now the switch will look at the destination MAC address which is a1a1, as we can see the MAC address table knows that
a1a1 is on port 5 so the switch can do action 3 because it knows which port the destination MAC address exists on.

now from this point if A and D need to send and receive data with each other, it will go through easily because
the MAC address table is populated with their respective ports and MAC addresses

if host D was a router, it would do the exact same thing except for the layer 3 header which has nothing to do with
the switch anyway

everything described so far was traffic going through the switch, however switches have MAC addresses but it was
uninvolved during the process of hosts sending traffic through the switch. if you wanted to send data to the switch
then the switches MAC address would be involved. the switches IP address would also be required. if you are sending
data to the switch, the switch is now acting as another host on the network














