REPEATERS:

we understand that a network is created when you connect 2 computers together using a wire:

computer----------------------computer

when you send data across a wire, it decays as it travels (longer distances), a repeater can be used to regenerate
signals:

computer--------repeater---------computer
--------------->||||||||->>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>

this allows communication across greater distances

HUBS:

lets say if we have a network with 3 hosts, each host has to be connected with each other. this is not scalable because
if we now add a fourth host, we'd have to connect it to all the other hosts etc.

to solve this issue we can use a hub, its one device which multiple hosts connect to rather than all the hosts being
connected to each other. so if we add another host, we connect it to the hub and now it has connectivity to all the
other hosts.

hubs are multi port repeaters, we said that repeaters regenerate signals. a hub is the same but it does it over
multiple ports. if there are 4 hosts (A-D) connected to a hub, if A communicate (send a packet) with B, it will
hit the hub and the hub will duplicate the packet and send it to the other ports

BRIDGES:

the problem with hubs is that everyone receives everyone else's data. if A sends data to B, C and D also receive the
data

a bridge sits between hub connected hosts. imagine hosts A, B and C are connected to a hub, then hosts D, E and F are
connected to another hub, a bridge sits between them and connects the 2 hubs

bridges only have 2 ports, bridges will learn which hosts are on each side. if host A sends data to B through the hub,
the hub regenerates the data to all ports so C will also get the data but so will the bridge. the bridge knows which side
B is on, so it doesn't bring the packet to the other side (D, E, F)

if A sends data to D, it will hit the hub, the hub sends it to B and C and also the hub, the hub sends the packet to
the bride and the bridge knows that D is on the other side so it sends the data to the hub on the other side and the
hub sends the data to D, E and F.

SWITCHES:

a switch is a mix of hubs and bridges, they have multiple ports and they learn which posts are on each port. so all 6
hosts (A, B, C, D, E, F) will be connected to the switch, and if A wants to send data to B, the data will hit the
switch and the switch knows that it needs to send data to B due to which port its connected to, so only B will
receive the data

switches facilitate communication within a network

hosts on a network share the same IP address space, if the IP of the network is 192.168.1.x, the devices will be like
.11, .22, .33 etc (192.168.1.x etc...)

ROUTERS:

lets say we have a school with 2 classrooms (maths and science)

maths network IP: 172.16.20.x, A=.11, B=.22, C=.33
science network IP: 172.16.30.x, D=.44, E=.55, F=.66

the reason these 2 classroom networks are separate is because they may have different connectivity requirements

if A wanted to send data to D which is a host from a different network, a router must be used between the 2
networks, that router should also be connected to the internet

a router facilitates communication between networks, routers also provide traffic control points (security, filtering,
redirecting), if we want to limit the traffic that goes from A to D, since they are in different networks, the traffic
has to flow through the router so it makes a perfect point to add security policies

routers learn which networks they are attached to, it would know which network is 172.16.20.x and which is 172.16.30.x
and which is the internet. the knowledge of each of these networks are known as routes, routes are stored in a routing
table. a routing table is all the networks that a router knows about. routers use routing tables to funnel traffic out
the appropriate interface 

routers have IP addresses in the networks they are attached to, so in the 172.16.20.x network, the routers IP may
be something like .1 (172.16.20.1) and in the 172.16.30.x network the routers IP may be something
like .254 (172.16.30.254). this IP address given to the router depending on the network is known as a gateway.

a gateway is each hosts way out of their local network

if A -> 172.16.20.11 wants to send data to D -> 172.16.30.44, A would have to go through its router which is through
the routers default gateway which is 172.16.20.1

KEY NOTE:

- routing is the process of moving data between networks, a router is a device whose primary purpose is routing

- switching is the process of moving data within networks, a switch is a device whose primary purpose is switching







